Artchain is a decentralized application that allows users to verify original photographs and artwork in a digital form on the blockchain. Artchain is going to be based on Ethereum's blockchain. Users will send an image file to Artchain, Artchain will then utilize Ethereum's smart contracts to provide the image with a unique hash and/or a timestamp that will then be tagged to the file or encrypted on the image file. A transaction will then be made to the blockchain with the file's unique hash within the transactions metadata. Once the transaction has been verified on the blockchain, the user can make as many copies of the newly tagged/encrypted image file and display or distribute this file as they please. Artchain will allow users the peace of mind that their artwork is registered and validated before they display it. This means they will always have proof that the art is their piece of work. Steganography may be implemented as the method of encryption on the actual image itself, but other methods of encryption will be explored. Artchain will be powered by Ethereum, Angular4 and potentially other libraries to facilitate encryption and hashing. MetaMask will be used to test transactions. I am also looking into using BigchainDB which provides developers with a queryable database with blockchain characteristics and the ability to treat anything in the database as an asset. BigchainDB would also help my application be scaleable and perform well. The target user is a photographer or artist that is interested in displaying their artwork without the fear of losing credit for their work. In the future, Artchain will hopefully expand to all types of artists ranging anywhere from musicians to film makers.  

Artchain is appropriate for this class for many reasons. Not only will I be utilizing all of my knowledge from previous classes, but I will be learning a whole new technology. Understanding the blockchain and all that it enables us to do will be key to this project. Additionally, I will gain more experience with hash functions and algorithms along with encryption. Photos and image files, their data, and pixels will be studied to put together a tagging feature or steganography approach to encrypting or attaching more data to the image itself. I will go through a large learning curve with this project but the tools and tutorials needed to succeed are within reach. In general, knowledge and understanding on how blockchain technologies work, and especially how to implement these technologies, are extremely beneficial at the moment.
